### Reading Response - Week 7
- [*The Rise of Surveillance Capitalism*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2s4Y-uZG5zk)  talk at [The Intercept](https://theintercept.com/) by Naomi Klein and Shoshana Zuboff.

##### Surveillence Capitalism
It is truly enligntening to hear and read about Dr. Zuboff's groundbreaking work on the elephant in the room. There have been many commentary works poking around the topic on their respective dicsipline, but having a structured set of lexicons is crucial to how we perceive the problem, especially at the its emerging stage. Surveillence Capitalism is a grand vision of our digital future for capital, but troublesome for humanity due to the asymmetry of knowledge and power. Analogous to early capitalism and colonialism, we are becoming more and more comfortable with unconscious consent to expropriation of our sovereignty, starting from the digital and extending through the physical, which could be gone if the new norm has established. As technology cultivates users and harvest better understanding and services, the dynamic starts to change to the extent that we cannot tell who actually is being used for the benefit of who.

##### User and Experience
These two words are fascinating in the skepticism of technology. Born in a business context, the study of user experience is meant to serve the capital by serving the user better. Better experience  modifies user behaviors towards the user's success with the product and the success of the product, which sometimes leaves out the bigger picture of the user. There is only metrics for pros to the company but no cons for the user if not noticeable. What does the user really experience at the cost of privacy exploitation? Probably a moment of convience or joy inside the product and an unconscious dedication to the giant data chrunching capitalism. The win-win narrative in which users spend valuable time on free services which generate profit for the company sounds too good to be true, as the money is made from the expectation of digital surveillence infrastructure to become the future air and soil. As users gain more literacy of how it works, privacy will hopefully be an essential part of experience, giving alternative products with appreciation on privacy a better environment.

