### Reading Response - Week 12
- [Seeing like a state (Introduction)](/readings/seeing-like-a-state-introduction.pdf) by  James C. Scott (1998)
- [How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of Millions](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/17/us/politics/cambridge-analytica-trump-campaign.html), New York Times (2018)
- [Cambridge Analytica and Our Lives Inside the Surveillance Machine](https://www.newyorker.com/tech/annals-of-technology/cambridge-analytica-and-our-lives-inside-the-surveillance-machine), The New Yorker (2018)

The Facebook and Cambridge Analytica scandle was no recent news. As a non-American citizen living in a country with little election campaign going on, I took it less seriously, solely as one of the few scandals deriving from Facebook's "break things" philosophy. And that crude first thought I take back, since data exploitation becomes much more relevant to people around the globe. If at scale and with powerful statiscal tools, data collection overlooking privacy is different from any other technological rabbit holes that have ever existed. 

Today's technologies have made possible a virtual data crunching machine to psychographically profile and influence real people at scale and accuracy. In the case of Cambridge Analycica, the behaviorial manipulations with advertising for political campaign is particularly troublesome, most simply because the return seems to vastly overwhelm all  legal risks. In Scott's study of tragic state-initiated social engineering, I see two of the four crucial elements are present with regards to this case, a "high-modernist ideology" and the lack of capacity of civil society to resist it.

Akin to numerous notorious communist experiments from last century, the ideological implication from such a practice sounds closely tied to technology advancement and a brand new taste of social scheme, which sounds as striking as People's Commune but most definitely justifiable through one way or another. It is especially true as data exploitation itself serves as a self-promoting propaganda machine. People fell into these suspicious narratives bacause few alternatives were given. What are the odds of us abondoning the brand-new powerful technology? Is rewiring social life an inevitable consequences of the ingenius inventions from or impowered by the silicon elites? I would like to say no to these hard questions and yet I could guarantee no alternative but the one that suggest us to resist. That is, to carefully gaze at whatever we are given, beliefs and indistinguishable made beliefs, with rational thinking at every attempts of behaviorial manipulation to bypass our rationale.